Welcome back.
Up until now we've found just simple patterns simple tax patterns in our string.
Nothing too crazy but we're regular expressions become really useful is for advanced patterns you see
with regular expressions you can do some crazy patterns like let's say this and this looks like complete
gibberish right.
But this means something in regular expression.
You can think of regular expression as an entire language in itself with different patterns that you
use to find well patterns inside of text.
Now the whole world of regular expression is really really complicated.
As a programmer I don't expect you to learn all these patterns.
You can see some of them here.
We have special sequences that mean something like Slash D.
Returns a match where the string contains digits number from zero.
Tonight you have things like sets over here where you type in a regular expression.
This it returns a match for any characters alphabetically between ANZ whether they're lowercase or uppercase.
So there's all these little shortcuts and tricks they can write in a regular expression and things can
get really really complicated so nobody actually memorize these things.
You develop them as the need arises and as a matter of fact later on in the videos we'll do an exercise
where we'll actually experiment with this and create a password checker and an email trick.
Now one of the tools that I really really like is called Reg X one to one dot com.
It's super super useful.
All you do is will pick python and I'll give you regular expressions and a testing ground for you to
test.
For example if I wrote something like Hey how are you I can now enter a regular expression here and
try things up.
So for example if I type in hey how are you.
Hmm.
Well this doesn't really work.
Maybe I can add some quotes around here but no.
And it actually gives you some options and information as to what you can use.
So for example let's say we wanted to check if well right here a character in arrange a to z or a doozy
if I copy this and paste it in.
It gives me four matches that I have in this case.
I am checking to see hey does does it match any character doing a to z.
Both lowercase and capitalize everything is matching right now you see over here that we have match
one match to match three.
So on and so forth.
I can also group things so I can do brackets here and now this is the first capture and group and then
I can do something else Sierra let's say in here I want let's say anything that is a.
So what does it mean here.
Well I have an explanation on the right hand side.
The first capturing group says hey match a single character present in the list below.
So it tells you a tizzy capital a desi and then the second capturing group is hey match a single character
present in the list below which is a now in here I have to capture in group so the first capturing group
and then the second capture group if I add a dot here which is a special meaning in regular expression
if I hover over you see that it matches any character except for line Terminators.
So what am I doing here.
Well I'm first have hate.
I want you to check for the first capturing group which is any single character in the range between
a to z and then after that I want any character.
And then after that I want you to search well for any matches of a.
So this is why we match for we might match W because we're looking for any letter and then a space or
any character and then an A.
So now we have a full match which is W2 a and then we have a group one which is W because it matches
the first group and then group 2 which matches the.
Now I know this is confusing regular expressions is one of those things that it's really hard to figure
out at first.
So let me show you how we can use it.
If I go to code generator here you'll see that I can actually just well give you a sample code that
you can use in python.
But what I like doing is actually copying this piece of text like this and going back to our code later
and in the compile pasted it.
Now you'll notice that there's an R here and R stands for a raw string because in Python something like
a slash backslash has a special meaning because remember with backslash is that we can do special things
like new line or tab an R says hey this is a raw string ignore everything that Python interpreter My
interpret I want this to just be a pure string.
So you'll see this along with regular expressions.
Now if I run this code you see that I have s e a here.
Again it's because I am searching for a letter followed by anything followed by a and if I have a group
here which I'm searching through if I do group one I get s if I do group to
I get a just like we did in our playground here
another useful thing is in here.
If you look at the quick reference you can actually search for things.
So let's say I wanted to check if a test string has maybe starts with so I can type and starts here
and you can see here that Oh it gives me a quick reference so if I do start of string it shows me hey
use this character and I'll help you do start of string.
So if I do let's say in here this carrot and say hey look at that.
It matches it for me.
So says hey assert position at the start of line.
It explains exactly here how it works.
And it tells me that I have a full match here now.
Most of the time the way you'll be using regular expressions isn't like this would actually be quite
hard if you're just figuring everything out yourself.
Like I said nobody really memorize these things.
You can see that we have quick references with common tokens that you can look through and understand.
But a more practical way of actually learning about regular expressions is to see a real life use case.
Now I'm going to leave some exercises for you that you can do if you want to learn about some of the
common patterns from my experiences.
This is not something that anybody is going to ask you about in an interview.
You don't really have to memorize regular expressions.
You just need to know what they do.
So try the exercises if you want.
Otherwise I'll see you in the next video to show you exactly how you would use regular expressions in
a real life scenario.
I'll see on that one.
Bobby.